# EditorResourcePreviewGenerator

Inherits: RefCounted < Object

Custom generator of previews.

## Description

Custom code to generate previews. Check
EditorSettings.filesystem/file_dialog/thumbnail_size to find a proper size to
generate previews at.

## Methods

bool | _can_generate_small_preview() virtual const  
---|---  
Texture2D | _generate(resource: Resource, size: Vector2i, metadata: Dictionary) virtual const  
Texture2D | _generate_from_path(path: String, size: Vector2i, metadata: Dictionary) virtual const  
bool | _generate_small_preview_automatically() virtual const  
bool | _handles(type: String) virtual const  
  
## Method Descriptions

bool _can_generate_small_preview() virtual const

If this function returns `true`, the generator will call _generate() or
_generate_from_path() for small previews as well.

By default, it returns `false`.

Texture2D _generate(resource: Resource, size: Vector2i, metadata: Dictionary)
virtual const

Generate a preview from a given resource with the specified size. This must
always be implemented.

Returning `null` is an OK way to fail and let another generator take care.

Care must be taken because this function is always called from a thread (not
the main thread).

`metadata` dictionary can be modified to store file-specific metadata that can
be used in EditorResourceTooltipPlugin._make_tooltip_for_path() (like image
size, sample length etc.).

Texture2D _generate_from_path(path: String, size: Vector2i, metadata:
Dictionary) virtual const

Generate a preview directly from a path with the specified size. Implementing
this is optional, as default code will load and call _generate().

Returning `null` is an OK way to fail and let another generator take care.

Care must be taken because this function is always called from a thread (not
the main thread).

`metadata` dictionary can be modified to store file-specific metadata that can
be used in EditorResourceTooltipPlugin._make_tooltip_for_path() (like image
size, sample length etc.).

bool _generate_small_preview_automatically() virtual const

If this function returns `true`, the generator will automatically generate the
small previews from the normal preview texture generated by the methods
_generate() or _generate_from_path().

By default, it returns `false`.

bool _handles(type: String) virtual const

Returns `true` if your generator supports the resource of type `type`.

## User-contributed notes

Please read the User-contributed notes policy before submitting a comment.

* * *

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  *[virtual]: This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.
  *[const]: This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.

